# Finding a Suitable Paper

## Initial Search
- When looking for a paper with an interaction technique we would have been able to replicate, we firstly decided to rule out techniques that needed complex hardware setups.
- We assumed that complex hardware setups would bring a higher possibility to fail the assignment when trying to get the setup right for a long time but not getting it to work in the end. 
- We saw the same problem with Marcel's Journal Club paper [MaGEL](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3708359.3712100). However, since the setup was not that complex apart from the resin block, we decided to try out setting up a simple circuit with LEDs and phototransistors. 
- We decided to only use the first two days of the assignment for this and choose another paper if it didn't work out in the two days. Therefore we continued to look for papers to replicate.
- Another option was the interaction technique [EarHover](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3654777.3676367) from Daniel's Journal Club. But for the gesture recognition there, extra hardware that we did not have was needed. Also the interaction technique did not really show a good performance in the paper itself. So we ruled out that paper. 
- Next, we looked at the Journal Club papers from recent years. The one that we liked most was [GlassHands](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2992154.2992162). We thought that this would have been possible but quite complex to build. The main problems we saw were varying lighting conditions, detection of interaction area and detection of sunglasses. We decided to keep this paper in mind but continued to look for other papers.
- Our next idea was to look for papers that used phone sensor data to interact with a system since we both liked the DIPPID assignments and thought DIPPID would offer a simple way to implement such a interaction technique. 
- For this, we first looked at the paper ["Can virtual reality be better controlled by a smart phone than by a mouse and a keyboard?"](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2659532.2659608). This paper presented a way to perform rotation and movement in 3D spaces using the mobile phone but did not fully rely on sensor data but instead also used a joystick type control on the mobile phone's touchscreen. 
- In the related work section of the paper we found an application that used tilting and turning the device in order to control six degrees of freedom in 3D applications. This worked by using the same three gestures for movement and rotation while having a button to switch between the two options. 
- The article that introduced the application was: [F. Klompmaker, K. Nebe and J. Eschenlohr, "Towards Multimodal 3D TabletopInteraction Using Sensor Equipped Mobile Devices," in Mobile Computing, Applications,and Services, Springer, 2013, pp. 100-114.](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-36632-1_6)
- The research chapter compares different 3D interaction methods for tabletops with six degrees of freedom. However replicating the same input technique for a tabletop would not gave been possible in the scope of this assignment, because a tabletop was not available. Therefore we decided that we could only replicate the interaction technique in combination with a 3D application on a regular PC/laptop. Consequently, the other interaction method from the article using multitouch and tangible interaction did also not remain as an option.
- At this point we decided to replicate the mobile phone sensor interaction technique from this article in case we did not get the MaGEL setup to work. However, we first wanted to try to build a MaGEL prototype.

## MaGEL Setup

## Final Decision

- Because we could not imagine to get our MaGEL prototype to work without urethane resin, that we did not have, we decided to replicate the mobile phone sensor interaction technique for 3D application based on this article: [F. Klompmaker, K. Nebe and J. Eschenlohr, "Towards Multimodal 3D TabletopInteraction Using Sensor Equipped Mobile Devices," in Mobile Computing, Applications,and Services, Springer, 2013, pp. 100-114.](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-36632-1_6).
- In the beginning we weren't sure what 3D application we wanted to control and discussed building a demo application using pyglet and OpenGL, using the phone to control the view in [FreeCAD](https://www.freecad.org/index.php?lang=de) or using it to control 3D objects in [Blender](https://www.blender.org). 
- We decided to create an extension for Blender since moving objects reflected the research article's intention more directly than moving the view. (Later, we also added moving the view in addition to the option to move selected objects in Blender.) Additionally, this represents a real use case. Part of the decision als was that Blender has a good scripting API that allows for easy creation of Add-Ons. 
